In 1946, the first missionaries arrived in Peru and the good news spread quickly in the Spanish
field. However, centuries of mistreatment caused many catch-wa-speaking people to regard
outsiders with reservation and mistrust. Over the decades, interested ones had to study
in Spanish in order to learn the truth, even if it wasn't their first language. It's true
that many catch-wa-speakers also understand Spanish. It's the language commonly used
in business and taught in school. However, it was noted that although they understood
the words we were teaching, the Bible's message didn't easily reach the heart. The good
news still had to be preached, not only in every nation, but to all tribes and peoples
and tongues. In 1992, the branch office in Peru received permission to translate literature
into catch-wa and start up preaching initiative to test the response in the field. When catch-wa-speakers
were approached with a warm greeting and presentation in their own language, it made a remarkable difference.
People started responding favorably to the message and many Bible studies were started.
Gradually, translators realized that it was necessary to translate into other catch-wa languages.
Just as there are a variety of cultures within Peru, there are also a variety of catch-wa
languages spoken. Translation teams were established where three of these languages are spoken,
an ayakucho, kusko, and watas. In 2013, permission was granted to build two new remote translation
offices, one in kusko and another in ayakucho. Many local and international brothers volunteered
to help on the building projects. Whether rain or shine, they worked together with the joyful
spirit. By early 2016, the new offices were ready to operate. On May 1st, 2016, brother Jeffrey
Jackson of the governing body delivered the dedication talk of these new facilities to a delighted
audience from around the country. We promise to use these buildings exclusively for
Jehovah's praise and glory. Do you accept that resolution?
These facilities are like gifts from Jehovah. Not only are the new offices clean and beautiful,
but they're specifically designed for the translation work.
One of the most important features of the new office is, therefore, is the audio recording studio,
equipped with a special soundproof room, where high-quality recordings are produced.
Children and older ones alike are captivated by videos of Juan Sito and Anita,
the catch-wa version of Caleb and Sofia. Just as when a tree grows and flourishes when
provided with an ample supply of water, congregations have been growing and being fortified
by an increasing flow of spiritual food in their own language. This great in-gathering of the
catch-wa people to Jehovah's organization truly contributes to the fulfillment of the
Prophecy at Revelation 7.9. Look, a great crowd out of all nations and tribes and peoples
and tongues standing before the throne and before the Lamb.